Print how-to doc (#2403)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/print.md

> ---

Reviewer: Global, tagging & naming of tab-sets: possibly use tagging copied from Overview of APIs article, which is:
```
##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

---
```

> ---

Reviewer: Add an entry in TOC.yml, in this PR.
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/blob/main/microsoft-edge/toc.yml

> ---

Reviewer: in article 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?tabs=dotnetcsharp#printing
which is file 
microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis.md

add a link pointing to the present article.  Do like other sections in overview-features-apis.md.

Update that section if needed - the list of API links in that Print section of overview-features-apis.md.

> ---

Reviewer: Move this .md file from directory
microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/
to
microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/

like (random example):
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/webresourcerequested

> title: Printing in WebView2 apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Printing from WebView2 apps
```
sync title in usual places:
* title:
* h1 (`#`)
* toc.yml
* any files that link to this one eg Overview of APIs

> description: How to print a web page in a WebView2 app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to print a web page to a printer, PDF file, or PDF stream in a WebView2 app.
```
opportunity to include search-engine terms and more broadly describe the capabilities.

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 01/12/2023
---

> # Print

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Printing in WebView2 apps
```

> There are a few different ways to print a web page in WebView2 which give you varying levels of ease of use and control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several different ways to print a web page in WebView2, which give you varying levels of ease of use and control.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

| Method | Description |
|---|---|
| `ShowPrintUI` | Opens the WebView2 print preview dialog or the operating system's **Print** dialog.  Easy to implement, minimal support for customizing. |
| `Print` | Immediately prints the current top-level document in the WebView2 using optional programmatically specified print settings.  You can build your own print preview dialog or print experience. |
| `PrintToPdf` | Immediately prints the current top-level document in the WebView2 to a PDF file.  To completely control how printing is performed, you can print to a PDF and then build your own code to print the PDF.  Accepts a path that the PDF file should be saved to. |
| `PrintToPdfStream` | Immediately prints the webpage to a PDF stream.  You can control how printing is performed; you can print to a PDF and then build your own code to print the PDF. |

```

> ## ShowPrintUI

Reviewer: part of global headings redesign since the Print method doesn't work well when terse heading.
```suggestion
## The ShowPrintUI method
```

> The ShowPrintUI show the WebView2 print preview dialog or OS print dialog for the current top-level document in the WebView2. With this mechanism you easily get a printing experience the user will be familiar with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ShowPrintUI` method opens the WebView2 **Print Preview** dialog or the operating system's **Print** dialog for the current top-level document in the WebView2 control. With this mechanism, you easily provide a familiar printing experience for users.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> 

Reviewer: GLOBAL: for link text that needs to include params b/c need to differentiate overloads, recommend showing lowercase / camelcase arbitrary param name (per Ref docs) rather than the type, in parentheses.

# [C#](#tab/csharp)

[CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI() Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui)

> [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))
```

> [CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printdialogkind)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printdialogkind)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C++](#tab/cpp)

> [ICoreWebView2_16::ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) Method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#showprintui)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ICoreWebView2_16::ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#showprintui)
```
cpp look&feel per Overview APIs article

> [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_dialog_kind)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_dialog_kind)
```
c++ look/feel

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

> ### Example: ShowPrintUI

Reviewer: Global in .md: heading levels:

On the one hand, try hard to make everything an h2, b/c "In this article" nav in upper right only lists h2s.

Other the other hand, Example sections sometimes are ok to hide from Nav by demoting to h3 which we prefer to tag as h4 to get a big difference in font size.

Recommend using only h2/h4/h6, esp. h2.

Author: Changed to use h4 instead of h3.

> ### Example: ShowPrintUI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: The ShowPrintUI method
```
if similar change is made for the parent heading

> This example shows the user a print dialog. If `printDialog` is `CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind.Browser`, opens a browser print preview dialog, `CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind.System` opens a system print dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows the user a print dialog. 
* If `printDialog` is `CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind.Browser`, opens a browser print preview dialog.
* If `printDialog` is `CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind.System`, opens a system print dialog.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C#](#tab/csharp)

```csharp
void ShowPrintUI(object target, ExecutedRoutedEventArgs e)
{
  string printDialog = e.Parameter.ToString();
  if (printDialog == "Browser")
  {
    // Opens the browser print preview dialog.
    webView.CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI();
  }
  else
  {
    // Opens the system print dialog.
    webView.CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind.System);
  }
}
```

**APIs:**

* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI() Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui)

> * [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))
```
we've used this convention in past - when we (very rarely) needed to show params b/c an overloaded method: show the intent-driven param name rather than the verbose, technical type.

No overloads found at:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?tabs=dotnetcsharp#web-messaging
ie Find of ") method" gives 0 hits.

RelNotes page might have some examples of our past recent conventions we developed:
found the one and only example of rare overload, and I plan to make this lowercase/camelcased like the WinRT tab:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/release-notes?tabs=dotnetcsharp#experimental-features-3

Author: So, I updated the param name and also included two links here. One with the ShowPrintUI and other one with ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) for dotnet. Can we have two here or just one with the overload?

* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui)
* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))

* [CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printdialogkind)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C++](#tab/cpp)

```cpp
bool AppWindow::ShowPrintUI(COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND printDialogKind)
{
  wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2_16> webView2_16;
  CHECK_FAILURE(m_webView->QueryInterface(IID_PPV_ARGS(&webView2_16)));
  CHECK_FAILURE(webView2_16->ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind));
  return true;
}
```

**APIs:**

> * [ICoreWebView2_16::ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) Method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#showprintui)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2_16::ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#showprintui)
```
just a look&feel convention for cpp

> * [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_dialog_kind)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_dialog_kind)
```

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Print

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Print method
```

> The Print method silently print the current top-level document in the WebView2 using optional programmatically specified print settings. If you want to build your own print preview dialog or otherwise build your own print experience you can use this method. This API consists of an asynchronous Print method and a PrintSettings object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Print` method silently prints the current top-level document in the WebView2 control by using optional, programmatically specified print settings. If you want to build your own print preview dialog, or build your own print experience, you can use this method. This API consists of an asynchronous `Print` method and a `PrintSettings` object.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> # [C#](#tab/csharp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### [C#](#tab/csharp)
```
good results for GitHub's Markdown view, fwiw.

> [CoreWebView2.PrintAsync() Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printasync)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2.PrintAsync Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printasync)
```
style convention for these regular docs: omit param list / parentheses from link text, except in very rare case of overload - and then, use param name (init lowercase), not the verbose type.

> [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> # [C++](#tab/cpp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### [C++](#tab/cpp)
```

> [ICoreWebView2_16::Print() Method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#print)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ICoreWebView2_16::Print() method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#print)
```
cpp look&feel

> [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 Interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)
```

> [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)
```

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

> ### Example 1: Print to default printer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example 1: The Print method to print to the default printer
```

> This example prints the current web page without a print dialog to a default printer with the default print settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example prints the current web page without a print dialog to a default printer, using the default print settings.
```
semi relevant
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> # [C#](#tab/csharp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### [C#](#tab/csharp)
```

```csharp
async void PrintToDefaultPrinter ()
{
  string title = webView.CoreWebView2.DocumentTitle;
  try
  {
    // Passing null for `PrintSettings` results in default print settings used.
    // Prints current web page with the default page and printer settings.
    CoreWebView2PrintStatus printStatus = await webView.CoreWebView2.PrintAsync(null);

    if (printStatus == CoreWebView2PrintStatus.Succeeded)
    {
      MessageBox.Show(this, "Printing " + title + " document to printer is succeeded", "Print to default printer");
    }
    else if (printStatus == CoreWebView2PrintStatus.PrinterUnavailable)
    {
      MessageBox.Show(this, "Printer is not available, offline or error state", "Print to default printer");
    }
    else
    {
      MessageBox.Show(this, "Printing " + title + " document to printer is failed", "Print to default printer");
    }
  }
  catch (Exception)
  {
    MessageBox.Show(this, "Printing " + title + " document already in progress", "Print to default printer");
  }
}
```

**APIs:**

* [CoreWebView2.PrintAsync() Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printasync)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2PrintStatus Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printstatus)

```
like in c++ below

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printstatus

          {
            std::wstring message = L"";
            if (errorCode == S_OK && printStatus == COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS_SUCCEEDED)
            {
              message = L"Printing " + std::wstring(title.get()) +
                              L" document to printer is succedded";
            }
            else if (errorCode == S_OK && printStatus == COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS_PRINTER_UNAVAILABLE)
            {
              message = L"Printer is not available, offline or error state";
            }
            else if (errorCode == E_ABORT)
            {
              message = L"Printing " + std::wstring(title.get()) +
                                  L" document already in progress";
            }
            else
            {
              message = L"Printing " + std::wstring(title.get()) +
                                  L" document to printer is failed";
            }

            AsyncMessageBox(message, L"Print to default printer");

            return S_OK;
        })
        .Get()));
  return true;
}
```

**APIs:**

* [ICoreWebView2_16::Print() method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#print)

> * [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)
```
cpp look/feel

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

> ### Example 2: Print to printer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example 2: The Print method to customize printing
```

> This example prints the current web page to a specific printer with the settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example prints the current web page to a specific printer with the specified settings.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C#](#tab/csharp)

```csharp
async void PrintToPrinter()
{
  string printerName = GetPrinterName();
  CoreWebView2PrintSettings printSettings = GetSelectedPrinterPrintSettings(printerName);
  string title = webView.CoreWebView2.DocumentTitle;
  try
  {
    CoreWebView2PrintStatus printStatus = await webView.CoreWebView2.PrintAsync(printSettings);

    if (printStatus == CoreWebView2PrintStatus.Succeeded)
    {
      MessageBox.Show(this, "Printing " + title + " document to printer is succeeded", "Print to printer");
    }
    else if (printStatus == CoreWebView2PrintStatus.PrinterUnavailable)
    {
      MessageBox.Show(this, "Selected printer is not found, not available, offline or error state", "Print to printer");
    }
    else
    {
      MessageBox.Show(this, "Printing " + title + " document to printer is failed", "Print");
    }
  }
  catch(ArgumentException)
  {
    MessageBox.Show(this, "Invalid settings provided for the specified printer", "Print");
  }
  catch (Exception)
  {
    MessageBox.Show(this, "Printing " + title + " document already in progress", "Print");
  }
}

> // Function to get printer name by displaying installed printers list to the user and

Reviewer: fyi: for now, I'm treating comments in code as out of scope for Writer/Editor pass.

@nishitha-burman - I don't know if this would be an appropriate place to polish comments in code.  If this is copied from another repo upstream, comments should be polished there instead.

  double PaperWidth = 8.5;
  double PaperHeight = 11;
  double ScaleFactor = 1.0;
  bool PrintBackgrounds = false;
  bool HeaderAndFooter = false;
  bool ShouldPrintSelectionOnly = false;
  std::wstring HeaderTitle = L"";
  std::wstring FooterUri = L"";
};

// Function to get printer name by displaying installed printers list to the user and
// return user selected printer.
std::wstring AppWindow::GetPrinterName()
{
  // Use win32 EnumPrinters function to get locally installed printers.
  // Display the printer list to the user and get the user desired printer to print.
  // Return the user selected printer name.
}

// Function to get print settings for the selected printer.
// You may also choose get the capabilties from the native printer API, display to the user to get
// the print settings for the current web page and for the selected printer.
SamplePrintSettings AppWindow::GetSelectedPrinterPrintSettings(std::wstring printerName)
{
  SamplePrintSettings samplePrintSettings;
  samplePrintSettings.PrintBackgrounds = true;
  samplePrintSettings.HeaderAndFooter = true;

  return samplePrintSettings;

  // or

>   //

Reviewer: I'm not clear on the "Or" construction. Could be clearer.  like "Or, as an alternative to the above function/ code block:"
```suggestion
```

>   // Use win32 DeviceCapabilitiesA function to get the capabilities of the selected printer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Use the Win32 DeviceCapabilitiesA function to get the capabilities of the selected printer.
```
holding off on editing comments in code

                              L" document to printer is succedded";
            }
            else if (errorCode == S_OK && printStatus == COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS_PRINTER_UNAVAILABLE)
            {
              message = L"Selected printer is not found, not available, offline or "
                              L"error state.";
            }
            else if (errorCode == E_INVALIDARG)
            {
              message = L"Invalid settings provided for the specified printer";
            }
            else if (errorCode == E_ABORT)
            {
              message = L"Printing " + std::wstring(title.get()) +
                                  L" document already in progress";
            }
            else
            {
              message = L"Printing " + std::wstring(title.get()) +
                                  L" document to printer is failed";
            }

            AsyncMessageBox(message, L"Print to printer");

            return S_OK;
          })
          .Get()));
  return true;
}
```

**APIs:**

* [ICoreWebView2_16::Print() method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#print)

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interace](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings1)
```

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 interace](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)
```

> * [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)
```

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## PrintToPdf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The PrintToPdf method
```
To be certain, I'd need to extract an outline of headings from this .md file.  Or view the rendered page.

> Silently print the current top-level document in the WebView2 to a PDF file. To completely control how printing is performed, you can print to a PDF and then build your own code to print the PDF. This API consists of an asynchronous PrintToPdf method and a PrintSettings object. The PrintToPdf method accepts a path that the PDF file should be saved to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Silently prints the current top-level document in the WebView2 control to a PDF file. To completely control how printing is performed, you can print to a PDF and then build your own code to print the PDF. This API consists of an asynchronous `PrintToPdf` method and a `PrintSettings` object. The `PrintToPdf` method accepts a path that the PDF file will be saved to.
```
not always applicable:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/s/should-vs-must

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C#](#tab/csharp)

> [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfAsync(resultFilePath, printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfasync)

Reviewer: as one of many stylistic design decisions of how to present API links, we usually omit parentheses and params, unless overloaded like in some cases.  This would apply to whole .md file, global.

> [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfAsync(resultFilePath, printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfasync)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfAsync(resultFilePath, printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfasync)
```
shows the two links get concat'd b/c no list item tagging
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/blob/user/monicach/PrintConceptDoc/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/print.md#printtopdf

> [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C++](#tab/cpp)

> [ICoreWebView2_7::PrintToPdf(resultFilePath, printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_7#printtopdf)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2_7::PrintToPdf(resultFilePath, printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_7#printtopdf)
```

> [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings)
```

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

> ### Example: PrintToPdf

Reviewer: 2 aspects to consider applying: 
* Possibly use only h2/h4/h6 in entire .md.  Repo is moving that direction eg Overview of APIs article.  Entered a global comment so maybe I shouldn't make that change here.
* Make "Example" headings match the parent scenario wording.
```suggestion
#### Example: The PrintToPdf method
```

> This example Prints current page to PDF using the default path and settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example prints the current webpage to a PDF file by using the default path and settings.
```

        if (webview2_7)
        {
            m_printToPdfInProgress = true;
            CHECK_FAILURE(webview2_7->PrintToPdf(
                openFileName.lpstrFile, printSettings.get(),
                Callback<ICoreWebView2PrintToPdfCompletedHandler>(
                    [this](HRESULT errorCode, BOOL isSuccessful) -> HRESULT {
                        CHECK_FAILURE(errorCode);
                        m_printToPdfInProgress = false;
                        auto showDialog = [isSuccessful] {
                            MessageBox(
                                nullptr,
                                (isSuccessful) ? L"Print to PDF succeeded"
                                               : L"Print to PDF failed",
                                L"Print to PDF Completed", MB_OK);
                        };
                        m_appWindow->RunAsync([showDialog]() { showDialog(); });
                        return S_OK;
                    })
                    .Get()));
        }
    }
}
```

**APIs:**

* [ICoreWebView2_7::PrintToPdf(resultFilePath, printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_7#printtopdf)

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interface](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings)
```
The leading slash fixes Doc Build "Warning: file-not-found".

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## PrintToPdfStream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The PrintToPdfStream method
```
the reason i suggest this is because there's a problematic case, the Print method, which makes a poor 1-word heading, "Print" b/c that heading is ambiguous re: verb vs. API item name.

> Silently print the current top-level document in the WebView2 to a PDF stream. To completely control how printing is performed, you can print to a PDF and then build your own code to print the PDF. This API consists of an asynchronous PrintToPdfStream method and a PrintSettings object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Silently prints the current top-level document in the WebView2 control to a PDF stream. To completely control how printing is performed, you can print to a PDF and then build your own code to do the printing the PDF. This API consists of an asynchronous `PrintToPdfStream` method and a `PrintSettings` object.
```
you have better wording than mine elsewhere, about how your own code conducts the printing.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C#](#tab/csharp)

> 

Reviewer: GLOBAL in .md, and if make changes in Overview of APIs:
asterisk before each api ref link

> [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfStreamAsync(printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfstreamasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfstreamasync)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfStreamAsync(printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfstreamasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfstreamasync)
```

> [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C++](#tab/cpp)

> [ICoreWebView2_16::PrintToPdfStream(printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#printtopdfstream)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2_16::PrintToPdfStream(printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#printtopdfstream)
```

> [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)
```

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

> ### Example: PrintToPdfStream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: The PrintToPdfStream method
```
b/c the Print method needs more verbose pattern than: 
```
## Print
```

> This example prints the PDF data of the current web page to a stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example prints the PDF data of the current webpage to a stream.
```

  wil::unique_cotaskmem_string title;
  CHECK_FAILURE(m_webView->get_DocumentTitle(&title));

  // Passing nullptr for `ICoreWebView2PrintSettings` results in default print settings used.
  CHECK_FAILURE(
      webView2_16->PrintToPdfStream(
          nullptr,
          Callback<ICoreWebView2PrintToPdfStreamCompletedHandler>(
              [title = std::move(title), this](HRESULT errorCode, IStream* pdfData) -> HRESULT
              {
                DisplayPdfDataInPrintDialog(pdfData);
                std::wstring message = L"Printing " + std::wstring(title.get()) +
                                       L" document to PDF Stream " +
                                       ((errorCode == S_OK && pdfData != nullptr) ? L"succedded" : L"failed");

                AsyncMessageBox(message, L"Print to PDF Stream");

                return S_OK;
              })
              .Get()));
  return true;
}
```

**APIs:**

* [ICoreWebView2_16::PrintToPdfStream(printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#printtopdfstream)

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## API Reference overview

Reviewer: doc design: possibly build-out the Overview of APIs article; move these links to the Print section that exists there, and then cross link between that section of that .md & this .md.

Objective: Avoid double-maintenance of this topical .md article & the Overview of APIs article.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C#](#tab/csharp)

* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI() Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui)

> * [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CoreWebView2.ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind))
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.showprintui?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.1549-prerelease#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-showprintui(microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2printdialogkind)

Author: Added to show overloaded method in dotnet.

* [CoreWebView2.PrintAsync() Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printasync)
* [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfAsync(resultFilePath, printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfasync)
* [CoreWebView2.PrintToPdfStreamAsync(printSettings) Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.printtopdfstreamasync#microsoft-web-webview2-core-corewebview2-printtopdfstreamasync)
* [CoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printsettings)
* [CoreWebView2PrintDialogKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printdialogkind)
* [CoreWebView2PrintStatus Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2printstatus)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

# [C++](#tab/cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2_16::ShowPrintUI(printDialogKind) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#showprintui)
* [ICoreWebView2_16::Print() method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#print)

> * [ICoreWebView2_7::PrintToPdf(resultFilePath, printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_7#printtopdf)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2_7::PrintToPdf method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_7#printtopdf)
```
make this change if you decide to streamline link text for methods as we've recently done in other articles eg Overview of APIs

Author: Removed parenthesis and params wherever used in the doc except for ShowPrintUI method in print.md

* [ICoreWebView2_16::PrintToPdfStream(printSettings, handler) method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#printtopdfstream)

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings Class](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings)
```

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 Class](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintSettings2 interface](microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printsettings2)
```

> * [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_dialog_kind)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_DIALOG_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_dialog_kind)
```

> * [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PRINT_STATUS enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_16#corewebview2_print_status)
```
c++ look & feel

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintCompletedHandler](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printcompletedhandler)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintCompletedHandler interface](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printcompletedhandler)
```

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintToPdfCompletedHandler](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printtopdfcompletedhandler)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintToPdfCompletedHandler interface](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printtopdfcompletedhandler)
```

> * [ICoreWebView2PrintToPdfStreamCompletedHandler](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printtopdfstreamcompletedhandler)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ICoreWebView2PrintToPdfStreamCompletedHandler interface](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2printtopdfstreamcompletedhandler)
```

---

<!-- end of tab-set -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

> * [Get started with WebView2](../get-started/get-started.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Printing](./overview-features-apis.md#printing) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.
* [Get started with WebView2](../get-started/get-started.md)
```
If the present article is moved to /how-to/ dir instead of /concepts/ the link would be:
```
* [Printing](../concepts/overview-features-apis.md#printing) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.
```
